now
when you need help in public don't ask a
group of people
instead approach individuals because of
something called the bystanders effect
the group of people may not help you the
social psychology theory states
that people are less likely to help you
when others are around them
they assume someone else from the group
will run to your rescue
if you're driving in the city or another
area with a grid-like design
and think you're being followed turn
right or left
four times you'll end up at the same
place you were before
and if the car behind you does too
you're probably being followed
don't go home and try to lose them if
you're outdoors while a storm is
approaching
and your hair stands up find shelter
immediately
static in your hair means positive
charges are rising through your body
reaching toward the storm's negative
charges you're likely to be struck by
lightning
if a shelter isn't available squat low
on the ground
on the balls of your feet put your hands
on your knees
and your head between them making
yourself as small as possible will
minimize the contact with the ground
and the damage from the lightning always
carry a small mirror with you while
traveling in isolated areas
it'll come in handy if you get lost if
you're stranded in the desert
and a plane flies overhead point the
mirror toward it to reflect the light
if you don't have a mirror signal planes
overhead by waving both your arms up and
down
if you're stranded somewhere in your car
don't abandon it
it's more challenging for rescuers to
spot you without your vehicle
unlike what's shown on tv when someone's
about to drown
they won't wave or cry out they'll have
their head tilted back
submerged in water they'll attempt to
keep their mouth above the surface by
using their arms
when you see someone looking like
they're floating or bobbing
trying to get their head out of the
water by trying to climb onto the
surface of the water
they need help if you can't swim and
you've fallen in deep water
don't panic hold your breath and let
yourself
bob up to the surface keep your back and
legs straight
try performing little kicks to bring
your body back to the surface
if you're trying to save someone who
can't swim never approach them directly
they'll likely bring you down in their
panic sneak up on them from behind
slip your arm across their chest and
make sure their hands aren't facing you
if they grab you they can pull you under
try to swim below them
come back a bit further away and try to
help them again
if you come across a grizzly bear it's
not your day
now don't run and don't make eye contact
slowly walk away if it isn't close to
you
but if it's charging stand still you
can't outrun it
speak in a clear monotone voice and
don't scream
now prior to this you might want to
research to see if there are grizzly
bears where you're traveling
and take pepper or bear spray with you
if a bear is within 25 feet of you
then use the spray if it attacks you
curl up in a ball and lie on the ground
stay quiet don't move or panic till it
goes away
now if a polar bear is chasing but it's
far away
start dropping clothing items a hat
scarf or a shirt
and run away polar bears have short
attention spans and they may stop to
sniff your clothing
this will give you time to head to
safety by the way if both of these bear
encounters happen to you
then please remind me not to go on
vacation with you
moving on if someone is choking but
they're coughing
don't intervene coughing means air can
get
both in and out and they've got a
partial obstruction in their airway
by helping you could cause a backflow of
air which could either
force out the hazard or dislodge the
blockage and cause a full block
just let them cough it out only help
when they can't breathe or
cough when caught in a strong rip
current
never swim against it you'll tire
yourself and it won't end well
swim parallel to the shore fast but stay
calm
and comfortable even if you get further
out you'll eventually
escape the current and can head back to
shore
thumbs are the weakest part of someone's
grip if someone pulls you by the wrist
don't twist your arms in their hand try
to push away
starting right where their thumbs are
notify your state department if you're
going abroad
in the us and some other western
countries you can tell the department of
state that you're going overseas
in the event of a natural disaster or a
political conflict
they'll know that you need to be
evacuated they'll also update you on
things that happen in the country
you're visiting to protect you from
trouble
if you find yourself in a stampede of
people you're in trouble as soon as you
fall
don't curl up in a ball and wait for it
to be over this can cause more damage
try to grab someone's leg as they run
past you to help yourself
up and keep going sometimes
camping trips end with people lost if
you're in such a situation
and trying to walk out of the camping
site take burned coal or wood sticks
with you
use them to draw messages on trees rocks
or logs
the markings will stay there for weeks
and it'll be easier for the rescue party
to trace you
always carry a needle in your first aid
kit if you're lost
you can make a compass with one you
first need to magnetize the needle by
rubbing the eye against hair
fur or silk around 100 times fill a
container with water
place a leaf on the water surface and
rest your needle on the leaf
it should start pointing north to south
when calling emergency services first
tell them your exact location
and then the problem even if you get cut
off
they'll know where to send the police or
an ambulance
if you have a fishy smell in your home
call a licensed
electrician immediately it can come from
overheated plastic and electrical
components
that can cause an electrical fire it
might be from an outlet
a switch an electrical breaker or
something else
like the fish you're baking in the oven
if a snake bites you
there are a few ways to tell if it was
venomous you can ask
it probably won't tell you venom snakes
usually have
multiple colors and cat-like pupils look
at the bite area
if there are two deep puncture wounds
you were most likely attacked by a
venomous snake
if the bite mark has tiny sharp teeth
and a u-shape
it was probably non-venomous whatever
the case
call emergency services and snap a
picture of the snake if you can
using your mouth to pull the venom out
is even more dangerous
you've got more chances of getting
poisoned than removing the toxin from
your body
if you're traveling and exposed to
freezing temperatures you're at risk for
frostbite
at first a part of your body will become
hard and pale
then you'll experience aching stinging
and numbness
to avoid frostbite apply petroleum jelly
on your nose ears and the tips of your
fingers and toes
you uh did remember to bring some didn't
you
this brings up a reminder if you're
shivering while in the cold you're safe
your body is trying to warm you up by
contracting your muscles
but once you stop shivering and if you
grow tired and want to sleep
then find a warm place immediately
you're at risk for hypothermia you'll
need a warm compress on your chest
neck or lower tummy never apply a warm
compress to your hands or legs
the sudden temperature change could
force cold blood back into your heart
lungs or brain causing your core body
temperature to drop
if you're lost and you need to drink
water from a stagnant source
always boil it to purify it untreated
water has bacteria or
other oils and chemicals that can be
harmful to you
the exact temperature and time you need
to boil the water depend on the altitude
to be on the safe side try to boil the
water for three minutes
when cooking oils start to boil they'll
smoke and then
catch fire if that happens turn off the
heat
and don't remove the cooking pot cover
it with a metal lid
fire won't survive without an oxygen
source use baking soda to extinguish
small grease fires
you'll need a ton of it to do the job
and only use this
tip when the fire is small never use
water
it'll cause the oil to splash and spread
the fire
you got all that good